SPRING 2022

SOFI STADIUM

CONVERGED NETWORK PRODUCES
RECORD BREAKING RESULTS

WEAPONS DETECTION
TECHNOLOGY
CHANGING THE SPEED OF ENTRY

FASTER FOOD!
ARAMARK, DENVER BRONCOS TEAM UP ON
AGGRESSIVE NEW TECHNOLGY DEPLOYMENTS

Welcome to the first issue of our NINTH year of STADIUM TECH REPORTS,
the Spring 2022 issue!

These long-form reports are designed to give stadium and large public venue owners and
operators, and digital sports business executives a way to dig deep into the topic of stadium
technology, via exclusive research and profiles of successful stadium technology deployments,
as well as news and analysis of topics important to this growing market.

Our stories for this issue include an in-depth look at the mind-blowing 53 petabytes of network
data used at Super Bowl 56 on SoFi Stadium’s converged IP network, as well as a feature profile
of the new walk-through weapons detection systems being deployed at sports venues. We
also have an in-depth look at the Denver Broncos’ innovative concessions technology use at
Empower Field at Mile High.

We’d like to take a quick moment to thank our sponsors, which for this issue include Verizon,
ExteNet Systems, MatSing, Cox Business/Hospitality Network, Boingo, American Tower, and
AmpThink. Their generous sponsorship makes it possible for us to offer this content free of
charge to our readers.

A new hello goes out to members of the The Association of Luxury Suite Directors (ALSD) and
the International Association of Venue Managers (IAVM), who now have access to Stadium Tech
Report content. We’d also like to welcome readers from the Inside Towers community, who
may have found their way here via our ongoing partnership with the excellent publication Inside
Towers.

As always, we are here to hear what you have to say: Send me an email to kaps@
stadiumtechreport.com and let us know what you think of our STADIUM TECH REPORT series.

Paul Kapustka, Founder & Editor
Stadium Tech Report

2    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

\ \  IN THIS ISSUE:

STAY UP TO DATE WITH THE
STADIUM TECH REPORT EMAIL
NEWSLETTER!

Get regular updates on news,
analysis and new reports, delivered
directly to your email in-box!

We never sell your email information.
Unsubscribe at any time. You only get emails
when there’s something interesting to share!

CLICK HERE FOR EMAIL SIGN UP

FOLLOW US ON TWITTER!

JOIN OUR LINKEDIN GROUP

6

LETTER FROM THE EDITOR

8

SOFI STADIUM’S CONVERGED
NETWORK SAW 53 PETABYTES OF
TRAFFIC FOR SUPER BOWL 56

16

SAFER, FASTER: NEW WEAPONS-
DETECTION TECHNOLOGY IS
CHANGING THE SPEED OF STADIUM
ENTRY

30

FASTER FOOD: DENVER BRONCOS,
ARAMARK TEAM UP ON AGGRESSIVE
NEW-TECHNOLOGY CONCESSIONS
DEPLOYMENTS

38

SPONSOR SHOWCASE

4    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     5

\ \  FROM THE EDITOR

Paul Kapustka

WALK IN, WALK OUT:
GET READY FOR
MORE CHECKOUT-
FREE CONCESSIONS

Coming soon, to a venue near you:
Checkout-free concession stands, where
you walk in, take what you want and walk
out, leaving the billing to the network.

If your stadium doesn’t have these
types of stands yet, just wait. If
investors have anything to say
about it, companies providing
the technology behind the most
innovative thing to possibly ever
happen to the crusty old world of
stadium concession stands will
explode in orders for their services
soon. That’s the kind of momentum
you can expect when multiple millions
of dollars get poured into businesses
that are just barely getting off the
ground.

Case in point: In mid-March, the
investment arms of Verizon and
Qualcomm were part of a $65

million funding round for a Silicon
Valley startup called AiFi, which
provides technology that powers
the checkout-free or “just walk out”
types of stores. These new systems
basically work like this: People sign
up for a prepayment system or swipe
a credit card, walk into the store, pick
out items they want and leave, with
billing handled later. In AiFi’s case the
technology centers around cameras
and artificial intelligence, with the
cameras able to see what you are
grabbing (and what you might take
and put back on the shelf) and then
sends you the receipt after you exit.

Why is this technology so powerful?
In the short life of networked
stadium technology developments,
few innovations have benefited
both fans and venue businesses
so quickly and so directly. For fans
it’s as low impact as you can get
-- you enter billing information in
an app, or even easier, just show up
with a valid credit card. You walk
in, grab something, and leave. No
waiting behind the father wanting
five different sandwich orders and
six different drinks and nachos
and popcorn and wait, what is a
Sheboygan bratwurst? You walk in,
get your Bud Light, and leave.

For teams, venues and other
concessions operators, the
technology is heaven on many levels.
For starters, having everything
automated means fewer employees
in lower-value positions -- and with
hiring at a premium, most venues
with such systems are saying
they can find other, more valuable
work for employees instead. While
the format means that there are
additional steps necessary to make
the systems work (think more
coolers full of cans, fewer made-to-
order items, many things pre-packed
for grab and go), once that flow is set
in place all you have to worry about
is restocking. And if the successes
of the systems we’ve seen in place
is any indicator, your next biggest
worry as a venue operator is finding
more space to put in more of the
checkout-free stands.

CAN STARTUPS FIGHT THE
800-POUND GORILLA?

If you were at the Indy 500 last year,
or at football games at Detroit’s Ford
Field or Miami’s Hard Rock Stadium,
you might have purchased items at
an AiFi-powered store. In partnership
with Verizon, AiFi helped deploy
box-like “pop-up” stores at those
venues and others, a self-enclosed
concessions stand where fans could
just do the walk-in, walk-out thing.
According to both Verizon and AiFi,
AiFi’s technology was a good fit for
such a Verizon-sponsored promotion
because its camera-only technology
only needed a solid connection (like
Verizon 5G) on the back end.

While AiFi has other outlets for its
technology than sports venues -- it
recently brought its technology to
a convenience-size store in Denver
and has similar customers in Poland
and the U.K., among others -- you
can probably expect to see it in more
stadiums soon. But it already has
competition on the ground there, as
Zippin -- another Silicon Valley startup
-- has an existing and expanding
footprint at big stadiums, including
Golden 1 Center in Sacramento, NRG
Stadium in Houston, AT&T Center in
San Antonio, and at Empower Field
at Mile High in Denver -- where, with
catering partner Aramark, it has its
technology at no fewer than nine
separate stands. And that may not be
enough to satisfy demand.

With a new round of $30 million of
its own last summer Zippin (which
also has its technology in other retail

areas, like airport shops and regular
stores) has a funding total so far of
$45 million, more than enough of
a war chest to compete with AiFi.
Zippin also recently added some
more stadium stores, and now has
25 Zippin stands at nine different
stadiums. The big question is the big
third competitor, a little Seattle firm
called Amazon that recently installed
its “Just Walk Out” technology in
a full-sized Whole Foods store in
Washington, D.C. Leaving no market
unchallenged, Amazon is also
moving into sports arenas, with four
Just Walk Out stands at the newly
renovated Climate Pledge Arena
in Seattle, two more at TD Garden
in Boston, one at United Center in
Chicago, two at UBS Arena, and two
new ones just added at Houston’s
Minute Maid Park.

Amazon’s twist to the business is its
Amazon One technology, which lets
customers sign up for billing and be able
to just use the palm of their hand as
identification to get into and get stuff
from a Just Walk Out store. Whether
or not people want to give bodily
information to a company run by Jeff
Bezos is a question worth pondering.
But letting sports fans get a beer even
when they can’t find their wallet may be
a powerful enough incentive. So Alexa,
who will be the winner?

HOW MANY STORES IS ENOUGH?

While all three entrants into the
field tout their technology as one
that eliminates concessions lines,
our real-world observations have
found that such claims aren’t

exactly true. While customers don’t
spend much time inside the stores
once they get through the gates, in
Denver the Zippin-powered stands
were so popular that by December
Broncos fans did have to wait in line
just to get into the stores -- albeit
probably a shorter wait than being
at a traditional stand, but a line
nonetheless.

And while traditional stands may
never completely go away, it’s a
safe bet that any place that tests
checkout-free stands will need more
soon, as fans flock to the places that
have the technology. While there is a
higher up-front cost of putting such
technology into existing concession
spaces -- sometimes the ceilings
need to be elevated to support the
cameras’ sight lines -- early returns
from Denver and other places
suggest that the huge increase in
sales is well worth the investment.

We realize that despite the technology’s
sameness the unique aspects of
every different venue means that like
anything else, deployment stories for
checkout-free concessions will widely
vary. So when it arrives in your arena,
tell us what happens. One thing we
think for sure is there’s going to be lots
more tales to tell about this technology,
very soon.

STADIUM
TECH REPORT

6    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     7

\ \  BY PAUL KAPUSTKA

According to statistics from Cisco,

whose networking gear is used
in every phase of SoFi Stadium’s

network, from core switches to Wi-Fi
6 access points to the video broadcast
IP media fabric, the overall network
throughput averaged 5.1 terabits per
second (Tbps) in the hours leading up to
and following the game, and averaged 12.1
Tbps during the actual Super Bowl itself,
leading to the final total. And in case you
need a refresher, one petabyte is equal to
1,000,000 gigabytes, or 1,000 terabytes.

SOFI STADIUM’S
SOFI STADIUM’S
CONVERGED NETWORK
CONVERGED NETWORK
SAW 53 PETABYTES
SAW 53 PETABYTES
OF TRAFFIC FOR
OF TRAFFIC FOR
SUPER BOWL 56
SUPER BOWL 56

In what has come to almost be expected, Super Bowl LVI at SoFi Stadium
set a record for fan usage of Wi-Fi. But the number that stole the show at
the NFL’s 56th “big game” was 53 — as in 53 petabytes — the amount of
traffic carried by the stadium’s converged IP network that day.

8    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     9

As perhaps the stadium with the single largest such
converged network -- and the only one with the
content-devouring Infinity Screen by Samsung video
board -- SoFi Stadium may have set a high-water
mark for total network usage that may be hard for any
other single building to approach. But more important
perhaps than the raw numbers from the game is the
proof that converged IP-based networks can indeed
support the highest demands of all network systems
in a large venue, and can do so at a much cheaper
cost and with easier management than the traditional
deployment of separate networks for each service.

THE HUGE DEMANDS OF VIDEO, ALL ON AN IP NETWORK

According to a blog post by Matt Swartz, a
distinguished engineer within Cisco’s customer
experience organization, the truly mind-boggling
numbers came in large part from the video demands
of SoFi Stadium’s big board as well as its 2,500 IPTV
screens, which include 300 outdoor signs in and around
the stadium and the surrounding Hollywood Park
development.

Top: It takes a lot of cabling to carry 53 petabytes. Bottom: The
Infinity Screen by Samsung gets ready for the big show. Credit, top:
Paul Kapustka, STR. Credit, bottom: Dan Grimsley, STR.

According to Swartz, during the Super Bowl the
broadcast network by itself was processing 24 Tbps,
throughput made possible by the Cisco IP Media Fabric
in the venue. For IPTV needs specifically, the network
was running 2.5 gigabits per second of multicast
traffic, bringing full uncompressed 4K feeds to every
connected screen.

C

M

Y

CM

MY

CY

CMY

K

10    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     11

Now more then ever, we’re gathering,
connecting, and sharing experiences.

Is your venue ready?

Top and bottom left: Data-generating fans were everywhere on Super Sunday, from outside the NFL media headquarters to the
various plazas surrounding SoFi Stadium. Bottom right: The main data room at SoFi Stadium. Credit all photos: Dan Grimsley, STR

Hospitality Network is a nationwide provider of
technology services to venues from coast to coast.

INTERNET • MANAGED WIFI • VIDEO SERVICES

STADIUMS • CONVENTION CENTERS • ARENAS • RESORTS

Visit us at coxhn.com to learn more.

©2022 Cox Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.

12    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

The all-Cisco Wi-Fi 6 network, the largest in any
stadium, set new records for single-day Wi-Fi usage,
with 31.2 TB recorded, according to statistics provided
by Extreme Networks. Super Bowl LVI also set a record
for the highest percentage of unique Wi-Fi device
connections with 57,618, which out of the 70,048
in attendance made for a “take rate” of 82 percent.
Previous high Wi-Fi “take rates” seen include 71.5
percent at Ohio State’s Ohio Stadium on Oct. 5, 2019
(where overall Wi-Fi data used was 25.6 TB) and 71
percent at Super Bowl 54. This year’s game also set a
new high mark for peak Wi-Fi network throughput, at

20.7 Gbps, almost double the peak throughput of 10.4
Gbps seen at Super Bowl LIV.

CONVERGED NETWORKS REPRESENT THE FUTURE AS
STADIUM TECHNOLOGY NEEDS GROW

Led by Skarpi Hedinsson, chief technology officer, SoFi
Stadium and Hollywood Park, and master technology
integrator AmpThink, the networking and compute
environment deployed inside the building (as well as in
Hollywood Park’s neighboring retail, commercial and
residential area) is unlike most large venues, where
different systems typically exist in their own silos,
often with their own separate and different network.

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     13

Instead, the SoFi Stadium network brings all building
functionality – including the wireless networks (among
the largest built anywhere), the server compute
platform, the telephone system, the IPTV network,
the indoor and outdoor digital signage (including
the massive oval dual-sided 4K main videoboard),
the television broadcast systems, and the building
management systems – into one converged platform,
with a single vendor/single format structure, using
Cisco gear in all places.

If you poke your head inside older sports venues, you
are most likely to see separate networks and operation
centers for many of the different systems – wireless,
wired networks, broadcast, and building operations.
Historically the case has been made that those who
know those systems best are responsible for building
their operations – but the silo approach often brings
headaches to those in charge of overall operations for
the venue as a whole, as they deal with the proliferation
of different systems to operate and manage.

In a Cisco blog post from last year, Hedinsson said the
unique single-network deployment inside SoFi Stadium
was not built simply to run up big numbers like the
Super Bowl statistics, but instead as simply a better,
easier way to run a venue.

“We hyperconverged storage
and the compute block, which
had never been done in a
building like this,” Hedinsson
said. “It allowed us to take 80
or 90 physical servers out of
the design — things that were
slated to run everything from
access control systems to
lighting control systems. We
virtualized all of that.”

Using 120 virtual machines, SoFi’s operations team
can now run every single operational technology
application in the building as well as some enterprise
technology applications, Hedinsson said. “At the same
time, we dramatically upgraded the manageability
and the security envelope of our network. What this

all translates to is we have time to pay attention to the
things that we should be paying attention to: customer
experiences.”

STADIUM
TECH REPORT

Fan-facing Wi-Fi also set a new single-day record, with 31.2 terabytes of
data used on the SoFi Stadium network. Credit: Dan Grimsley, STR

14    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     15

SAFER, FASTER: NEW
SAFER, FASTER: NEW
WEAPONS-DETECTION
WEAPONS-DETECTION
TECHNOLOGY IS
TECHNOLOGY IS
CHANGING THE SPEED
CHANGING THE SPEED
OF STADIUM ENTRY
OF STADIUM ENTRY

\ \  BY PAUL KAPUSTKA

There’s a new game in town, coming soon to a stadium near you:

Keep your hands to your side and walk forward at a normal pace.
Congratulations, you’ve perfected the new way to enter stadiums.

Put your keys back in your pocket. Keep your cell phone there, too.

Walk-through weapons detectors, which use new technology to speed
up the security screening process. And don’t call them “metal detectors,”
because according to their creators, these systems do so much more than
the old-school technology that requires fans to take out metal objects like
keys and phones from inside pockets and purses.

Traditional metal detectors, which force fans to take objects out of pockets, can cause big entry backups, like
this one at the recent Women's Final Four semifinals at Target Center in Minneapolis. Credit: Paul Kapustka, STR

16    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     17

Enhance

the Fan Experience With 5G

Leverage our expertise and resources to prepare your network for the 5G
era. American Tower has been developing and deploying in-building wireless
infrastructure for nearly 20 years. We can deliver a fully turnkey and future-
ready network, enabling seamless wireless coverage for venues of all sizes.

18    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

sales.REsolutions@americantower.com
americantower.com/venues

© 2022 ATC IP LLC. All rights reserved.

or requirement for stadium security protocols, local
safety laws, and procedures and guidelines from
leagues and conferences have pretty much led all large
venues to deploy airport-like metal-detector systems
to keep fans, athletes and building workers safe from
carry-in threats.

And though detection system operations differ widely
from venue to venue, almost any fan can tell you a story
about waiting in a long line while other fans go through
the security screening process, with almost inevitable
stoppages to find things in pockets or jackets that
caused the sensors to emit the well-known “beep.”
While in the past fans might have been expected to
wait out the delays with some degree of patience, in
the Covid era of shortened tempers and increased
willingness to flout protocols it has become even more
important for venue operators to find ways to eliminate
such pain points whenever possible.

Add into the equation a need by venues to detect new
kinds of threats that are hard for metal detectors
to find, like “ghost guns” that may have some parts
manufactured out of plastic with 3D printers, or very
small things like ceramic knives, and you have a market
in need of new technology that can both speed up lines
and detect more threats. According to suppliers of
the new systems, that is just what they are offering --
though given the early stages of development and the
challenges of disrupting years of accepted behavior,

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     19

Top: An Evolv gateway at the Space Needle in Seattle. Bottom: CEIA
Opengate systems in use at Empower Field at Mile High in Denver. Credit
all photos: Paul Kapustka, STR

Using newer forms of radio-wave image detection or
magnetic scanning, the claim for most of these new
systems is that they can “see” weapons of all shapes
and sizes, and then use artificial-intelligence (AI)
software to compare images to known threats that are
catalogued in digital databases. With claims of fewer
“false positive” alarms and no need to “divest” metallic
or any other items, these systems are designed in part
to significantly speed up or even eliminate one of the
bigger causes of stadium lines, namely the pre-game
security check.

While security in many forms has always been present
at large public events, the current era of having
fans pass through airport-like detection systems
before entering stadiums can be mainly tracked
back to industry reactions to the Boston Marathon
terrorist attacks in 2013, when bombs planted near
the race finish line killed three people and injured
hundreds more. Though there is no national standard

implementing the new walk-through detection devices
is far from an easy rip and replace.

VERSION 1.0 ISSUES AND THE NEED FOR EDUCATION

On a visit to Lower.com Field last summer for a
Columbus Crew MLS game, Stadium Tech Report saw
the promise of walk-through weapons detectors in live
action, as groups of fans simply streamed by the Evolv
Express detection systems. If old metal detectors can

Clockwise from top: Evolv systems at Lower.com Field in Columbus;
An expanded security perimeter in Denver; and a Patriot One gate
at the Moody Center in Austin. Credit top and bottom right: Paul
Kapustka, STR. Credit bottom left: Patriot One

20    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

only scan around 300 fans per hour -- or five per minute
-- the new systems like Evolv’s clearly eclipse that
figure by a wide margin. The very few “positive” tests
we saw mainly seemed to be umbrellas that were being
carried under coats, with an unusally high number of
those present due to the monsoon-like storms that
swept through Columbus just before game time.

In December last year at the Denver Broncos’ Empower
Field at Mile High we saw a new security perimeter
strategy unveiled, as the Broncos put the walk-through
Opengate systems from CEIA a bit farther away from
the stadium than their previous deployments of
stadium-door metal detectors. The new setup allowed
the Broncos to have fans quickly inside their security
perimeter, in a wide-open space where they could
utilize stadium Wi-Fi to download tickets in preparation
for the digital ticketing entry gates.

While both deployments seemed effective, the
apparent simplicity of the new walk-through security
systems belies the depth of the challenge for venues.
Due to their radical difference in operation from past
systems, the new ones will require venues to rethink
their entire entry strategy, especially the relation
between ticketing and security, to avoid causing more
or worse problems than before. At some venues this
past fall such problems did occur, as the speeded-
up security process overloaded the ticketing gates,
causing logjams.

Putting aside for a minute whether or not the systems
work as advertised, the biggest issue most venues
are likely to face is the education needed, mostly for
operations staff but also for fans. It’s actually kind of
amusing to watch fans on their first trips through the
systems, as years of being taught to stop, raise hands,
and maybe take things out of pockets is a hard lesson
to unlearn. At all venues we’ve seen so far, part of the
new security-systems staff job is to tell people to just
keep walking and keep things in their pockets.

And while almost every vendor touts that their systems
will reduce the number of security staff needed --
another plus in this era of hard-to-hire reality -- the
flip side of that equation is that the staff need to be
more thoroughly trained and sometimes more stern
to react since people who trigger a positive test at a
walk-through system may not know it and may need

new security systems. “There’s going to be a learning
curve.”

And then, there is the question about whether the
systems really work, and if they are indeed safer than
metal detectors. Since most people have at some point
experienced a “positive” alarm while going through a
metal detector -- for whatever reason, either a device
in a pocket or perhaps a belt buckle or medallion
-- there is generally a high level of confidence and
belief that while sometimes onerous, the systems do
work as advertised and thereby do provide fans some
assurance of safety.

Contrast that experience to what fans encounter with
the walk-through systems, where nothing seems to
be happening, and it’s understandable that some may
doubt that such detection is possible (especially when
even some of the newer airport-screening systems
still require people to stand still with hands raised). In
this sense, the new providers of weapons detection
systems do themselves no favors by being somewhat
coy about how their products actually work.

While there is kind of a “Fight Club” type of silence
around stadium security technology and strategies in
general -- for instance, Stadium Tech Report did not get
any response to requests for interviews with security
executives from any of the top U.S. professional sports
leagues -- it may be understandable since to fully
describe such systems may be providing too much
information to potential bad actors. In a similar vein,
most of the companies we contacted were somewhat
vague about the exact technologies their systems use,
preferring instead to talk about capabilities than about
the inner device workings. The reluctance to provide
such information, however, puts more of a burden on
team and venue security staff to dig deeper during
purchasing negotiations.

INVESTMENT MONEY SEES A FUTURE FOR WALK-
THROUGH SYSTEMS

If deployments of such systems are at the earliest
stages, so too is the technology itself. Peter Evans,
chief executive officer of systems provider Patriot One,
compares his company’s current offering to the iPhone 3,

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     21

Top: Evolv systems at Lower.com Field and outside the Target Center
in Minneapolis. Bottom: Patriot One gates at Climate Pledge Arena in
Seattle. Credit all photos: Paul Kapustka, STR

to be stopped from walking away, for a secondary
scan. While our live experience is limited, it seems like
every vendor deployment so far is a work in progress,
with physical entry structures and available entry
space sometimes a contributing factor. Several of the
vendors we spoke with are also making changes to
their systems to better help fans and staff comply with
positive warnings, like adding louder beeps.

“The industry is still trying to understand best practices
with staffing” for the new systems, said Daniel Ward,
director of training and exercise for the National
Center for Spectator Sports Safety and Security at
the University of Southern Mississippi. Known as
NCS4, the group, which conducts “research, training,
and outreach programs” for the industry on products,
services and best practices, is actively testing the new
walk-through systems as they are deployed, according
to Ward.

“It’s not as simple as plug and play,” said Ward,
referring to the deployment issues presented by the

SMART STADIUM.
 SMARTER
WIRELESS.

Elevate the fan experience and simplify operations with a Boingo wireless network.

From contactless concessions and cashless payment to biometrics and live streaming,

Boingo powers smart connected venues for the 5G era.

5G connectivity

Private networks

On-demand analytics

Network monetization

IoT implementation

End-to-end management

Solutions for all carriers

Layered cybersecurity architecture

LET’S TEAM UP
Justin Bushee, VP, Business Development   |   jbushee@boingo.com   |   310-586-4023

wireless

The Evolv Express gates allow many fans to walk through security at one time. Credit: Paul Kapustka, STR

while predicting that improvements to the technology will
come as quickly as new smartphones do.

“There will be a path” to improved technology, Evans
said, with security systems perhaps even incorporating
ticketing and other venue-specific needs like
vaccination checks, going forward.

While fans seem to like the new systems -- we have
heard rave reviews from attendees at venues using
the new devices -- what may be more important from a
business point of view is that investors also think there
is great promise in the systems. While industry giant
CEIA (which manufactures many of the current metal
detectors in use at stadiums today) most likely has
enough resources to compete on its own, the startups
in the field are also attracting attention in the most
important way, with investor cash.

Evolv actually went public last year on the NASDAQ
exchange through a SPAC (special-purpose acquisiton
company) deal that netted the company approximately
$385 million in working capital. Patriot One, which
is based in Toronto, Canada, was as of this writing
going through a public share offering designed to
raise approximately $7 million (in Canadian dollars).
And Liberty Defense, which produces the Hexwave
detection systems, in March raised approximately $8
million (in Canadian dollars) in funding bringing its total
funding to approximately $35 million CAD.

Mike Downing, chief security officer for Prevent
Advisors, the security arm of venue operations giant
the Oak View Group, said that OVG CEO Tim Leiweke
called the walk-through systems the biggest venue
technology innovation in the last 50 years. OVG has
deployed Patriot One systems at Climate Pledge Arena
in Seattle, where the systems are currently being
tested as they await approval from the NHL for use at
Seattle Kraken games. The Patriot One systems were
also in use at the recent opening of the Moody Center,
the new arena-sized venue at the University of Texas,
managed in part by OVG.

According to Downing, OVG is “working very closely
with Patriot One on a number of deployments,” with
those deployments in different stages of planning and
deployment. But overall, Downing said that the move
toward walk-through systems in general is a positive.

“In our opinion, [the new technology] is far superior,”
Downing said. “The upside is huge.”

So keep your keys in your pocket, and walk forward -- to
the future of stadium security screening.

STADIUM
TECH REPORT

#WirelessSimplified

22    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     23

RACE IS ON FOR WALK-THROUGH
DETECTOR MARKET SHARE

\ \  BY PAUL KAPUSTKA

Here are some quick snapshots of the leading providers in the new market for walk-
through weapons detection systems for stadiums and large public venues. Data in the
snapshots is mainly from company interviews and published website information.

Company: CEIA USA (U.S. subsidiary of Italian parent
CEIA, whose initials stand for Costruzioni Elettroniche
Industriali Automatism; but everyone calls the company
by its acronym, which is pronounced “CHEY-ah”)

Product: Opengate weapons detection system

What it looks like: Two thin towers per gate

Other technology notes: Opengate systems are wireless
and do not require wired connections between the two
gates. They are light and portable, weighing 25 pounds
per gate. According to CEIA the towers are hardened for
outdoor use as well as in RF interference zones.

How it works: People walk between the two gates one
at a time. Positive alerts generate audio and visual
(lights) signals from the towers.

Venues using it now: Empower Field at Mile High
(Denver Broncos), Ohio Stadium (The Ohio State
University)

Finances: Privately held

Expertise: CEIA is a 50-year-old worldwide weapons
detection behemoth, with systems of all shapes and
sizes, including machines that can scan entire shipping
containers. Its standard metal detectors are in wide
use at many U.S. venues.

Why their product is the best: While CEIA did not make
any executives available for an interview, the company
did answer some email questions -- although they
didn’t answer questions directly but instead replied
with boilerplate marketing messages. While CEIA did
not provide any type of statistics for walk-through
scanning rates or exactly what kinds of weapons its
systems can detect, the company claims its systems

are better because of their combined abilities to detect
threats, to ignore non-threats, and to perform in
adverse conditions (rain, snow, etc.).

Possible issues: According to one observer, early
versions of the Opengate product were so light that
they were susceptible to being tipped over by strong
winds (apparently the company now provides an add-on
heavier base as an option).

STR take: With so many venues already using CEIA
metal detectors, moving to a CEIA walk-through
system may be an easy first choice, especially because
it sounds like they may be the least expensive such
system on the market. The light weight seems to make
CEIA Opengate a good choice for venues who need
greater flexibility for security perimeters. But the
systems don’t do some of the things that others claim
to do, like using an integrated alert viewing system (like
a tablet) to show threat locations on scans.

Company quote: “In our opinion, and given what we
have seen about the competition, the OPENGATE™
works better than the other detectors.”

Company: Evolv Technology

Product: Evolv Express weapons detection system

What it looks like: A two-lane system with one big
panel gate in the middle and a smaller pole-type gate
on each side

Other technology notes: According to Evolv, its
scanners use magnetic field scanning to identify not
just objects but also the composition of objects, like
different types of metals. Evolv also offers a smaller,
one-at-a-time system, the Evolv Edge.

How it works: For the Express system, people can walk
by in groups on either side of the main panel, with no
need to have single-file flow. Objects can be kept in
pockets or bags. Alerts cause a sound and light change
on the panel; staffers also watch a tablet that shows
video of where the alert object is on the person’s body.

Venues using it now: Mercedes-Benz Stadium (Atlanta
Falcons); Wrigley Field (Chicago Cubs); Nissan Stadium
(Tennessee Titans); Lower.com Field (Columbus Crew)

Finances: Evolv went public in 2021 via a SPAC (special-

24    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     25

purpose acquisiton company) deal that netted the
company approximately $385 million in working capital;
celebrity investors include Bill Gates and Peyton Manning.

Expertise: Evolv has several executives with decades
of experience in the security technology fields.
Founder Mike Ellenbogen was previously the founder of
Reveal Imaging Technologies and been issued sixteen
patents in the field of X-ray inspection and automated
detection technology.

Why their product is the best: In an interview with
Ellenbogen, he told us he assembled the Evolv team out
of experts he had worked with before, “people who solve
really hard detection problems,” and they have been
working for several years to “get the technology right.”
Now Evolv’s Express systems claim an ability to scan
3,600 people an hour, with “really reliable detection.”
Ellenbogen says one Express system can replace up to 10
traditional metal detectors, with significanly less staffing
requirements. Ellenbogan calls some of his competitors
“science experiment companies,” claiming that their
products, unlike Evolv’s, have not been built to withstand
real-world conditions. “There’s a huge chasm between
the lab and the real world,” Ellenbogan said. “Your systems
need to work in the heat in Atlanta and in the cold at Green
Bay. It’s a challenge to make that leap.”

Possible issues: Competitors say that the size
and weight of the main Express gate makes it far
less portable and flexible than other options. Most
observers also note that Evolv’s subscription pricing
model is among the more expensive of the walk-
through products on the market today.

STR take: Evolv’s Express systems seem to support
the highest amount of “walk-through” traffic, though its
effectiveness means that venues may need to rethink their
overall entry procedures since its speed of performance
can cause bottlenecks at other junctions, like ticketing.
In Columbus, for instance, the team put the security
checkpoints after ticketing, different than most stadiums.

Company quote: “You have to do screening at the pace
of life. If you have to stop, it just doesn’t work.” -- Mike
Ellenbogen

Company: Patriot One

Product: Patriot One Multi-Sensor Gateway; latest
version for stadiums is called SmartGateway

What it looks like: Two thinner square poles, about four
feet in height.

Other technology notes: Newest version of product
for stadiums includes LED panels that can be used
for traffic flow (stop/go) on customer-facing side, and
threat location indicator on operator side. Company
says systems can be used indoors or outdoors.

How it works: Fans walk between gates in single file.
Devices can be kept in bags or pockets. Alerts are
provided by LED lights on the towers as well as via a
tablet or laptop used by staff.

Venues using it now: Climate Pledge Arena, Seattle
(Seattle Kraken), Moody Center (University of Texas)

Finances: Recently raised $7 million (Canadian dollars).

Expertise: Patriot One was founded in 2016 with
research partner McMaster University, a Canadian
center for radar technology research led by Dr.
Natalia Nikolova. The company says it has combined
microwave radar technology with multiple sensor
technologies and artificial-intelligence software to
produce its latest products.

Why their product is the best: Like all the other
companies we spoke with, Patriot One is somewhat
guarded about the exact makeup of their detector
technology. But CEO Peter Evans said that the
company’s systems can not just detect threat shapes
and sizes, but can also get reflective information about
things as granular as the types of metals in devices
being carried in; “We can identify an iPhone 12 by the
[different] metals inside it,” Evans said. Evans also
touts the lighter-weight portability of the Patriot One
product, which make it more flexible for deployments.
While the company doesn’t have a single throughput
number as its claim, CEO Evans did say it could be as
much as four or seven times faster than traditional
metal detectors.

Possible issues: In earlier versions of the Patriot
One system, live reviews by the NCS4 (the National
Center for Spectator Sports Safety and Security at
the University of Southern Mississippi, a research
clearinghouse) this past fall found that the systems
had a high rate of “false alerts” for Apple Watches and
Apple Air Pods, which both contain powerful magnets.
According to the NCS4, the issue was corrected in a
later version of the Patriot One system software. Some
of the testers of the systems also noted that it had
some difficulty detecting threats strapped low to the
ankle, and that several positive tests in a row could
sometimes “freeze” the detectors.

STR take: Patriot One is in somewhat of a pivot mode,
as a few years ago the company was touting a system
that would not use single static gates but instead
would use multiple systems that would interact. Under
new CEO Peter Evans the company has changed its
product and message to the more recognizable walk-
through systems. The relationship with Oak View
Group -- where the company has installed Patriot One
systems at two of its newest venues -- is net positive
as OVG is responsible for a growing number of venue
builds, upgrades and building management. While OVG
says it is working with Patriot One on multiple possible
deployments, there is as of yet no publicly signed
agreement between Patriot One and OVG.

Company quote: “This technology can completely
change the fan experience.” -- Peter Evans

Company: Liberty Defense

Product: Hexwave

What it looks like: Two larger flat towers

Other technology notes: The Hexwave system uses
“Active 3D imaging technology” to produce images of
threats which are then matched against known items
through artifical-intelligence software. The company
claims the systems can be used indoors or outdoors. The
company also claims it can scan 1,000 people per hour.

How it works: Fans walk through the two towers in
single file; Devices can be kept in bags or pockets.
Alerts cause a sound and light change on the panel;
staffers also watch a tablet that shows video of where
the alert object is on the person’s body.

Venues using it now: University of Wisconsin, Maryland
Stadium Authority (Camden Yards), both beta testers

Finances: Recently raised $8.62 million (Canadian),
bringing funding total to $35 million Canadian.

Expertise: Hexwave has several executives with
extensive experience in the security technology
industry, including CEO Bill Frain, former senior vice
president for L-3 Security & Detection Systems. The
Hexwave technology is based on technology licensed
from the Massachussetts Institute of Technology.

Why their product is the best: According to CEO Bill

26    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     27

Frain, the principals behind Liberty Defense “saw
a need for urban security screening” that would be
similar to the advanced technologies being deployed
at airports. Like other systems, the Hexwave platform
makes use of artificial intelligence software that can
“learn” as it is fed more information about possible
threats. Frain cites the company’s ability to generate
“real-time 3D images” of people passing through the
gates as the best way to detect all possible threats,
metallic and non-metallic.

Possible issues: Not much is known yet about
the performance of Hexwave systems in stadium
environments, since there are only two publicly
announced beta trials currently taking place. Frain says
the company expects to have a commercial product
available later this year.

STR take: Solid executive credentials and MIT-
developed technology seems like positive starting
points for any startup. But in a quick-moving market
with well-funded competitors Liberty Defense and
Hexwave will be playing catch-up.

Company quote: “If you can improve entry throughput
capacity the benefit is a better fan experience.” -- Bill Frain

OTHER COMPANIES IN THE WEAPONS DETECTION AND
STADIUM SECURITY SPACE:

Company: Xonar

Product: XonarSafe

What it looks like: Pathway with two elongated rails

How it works: Fans walk through rails in single file.

Venues using it now: None; one publicized test took place
at a convention hall in Clearwater, Fla. The company last
issued a press release in August, 2021, announcing a new
COO “as it prepares for commercial launch.”

Company: Syght

Product: No product name yet

What it looks like: No photos

How it works: Company website claims “Syght sensors
leverage passive millimeter wave imaging and automatic
threat recognition technologies to pinpoint concealed
weapons and explosives on moving objects at a distance.”
Website also says that the sensors are “compact
and lightweight” and can be used in covert or overt
deployments. Company executives contacted via email
said the company is still currently “under the radar.”

Company: ZeroEyes

Product: ZeroEyes detection system

What it looks like: No photos available, system is
mostly software

How it works: ZeroEyes is not an entry weapons
detection system but an active shooter identification
system, designed to work with existing security
cameras “to detect weapons in real time.” According
to an interview with ZeroEyes, the company’s system
includes the availability of real-time monitoring to help
first responders locate and engage active shooters as
quickly as possible.

THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR SPECTATOR SPORTS SAFETY AND SECURITY (NCS4) invites you
to attend the 13th Annual National Sports Safety and Security Conference & Exhibition on June 28-
30 at the Omni Orlando Resort at Championsgate in conjunction with Title Sponsor, inOrbit. The 2022
conference theme is Game-Changers: Lead, Discover, Innovate.

The conference will offer dynamic programming, solution provider engagement, and opportunities to

network with fellow game-changers in our industry. Experienced professionals will share ideas, tools,

and proven strategies to help you stay informed of industry advancements.

WHAT TO EXPECT AS A CONFERENCE ATTENDEE

•  Meet and Greet at the Opening Reception and

•  Network with Peers

Social in the Exhibit Hall

•  Engage with Panelists and Attendees in

•  Hear from Leading Industry Experts on Current

Dynamic Breakout Sessions

Topics and Technology Advancements

•  Participate in Interactive Panel Discussions

•  Explore Emerging Technologies

•  Discover New Products and Services

•  Attend the Awards Luncheon

in the Exhibit Hall

TITLE SPONSOR

28    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

STADIUM
TECH REPORT

VISIT THE WEBSITE TO VIEW THE AGENDA AND REGISTER NOW:

NCS4.USM.EDU/CONFERENCE

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     29

FASTER FOOD:
FASTER FOOD:
FASTER FOOD:
FASTER FOOD:
DENVER BRONCOS,
DENVER BRONCOS,
DENVER BRONCOS,
DENVER BRONCOS,
TEAM
ARAMARK TEAM
ARAMARK
ARAMARK TEAM
TEAM
ARAMARK
UP ON AGGRESSIVE
UP ON AGGRESSIVE
UP ON AGGRESSIVE
UP ON AGGRESSIVE
NEW-TECHNOLOGY
NEW-TECHNOLOGY
NEW-TECHNOLOGY
NEW-TECHNOLOGY
CONCESSIONS
CONCESSIONS
CONCESSIONS
CONCESSIONS

Fans line up outside a Zippin store at Empower Field at Mile High. Credit all photos: Paul Kapustka, STR

\ \  BY PAUL KAPUSTKA

Even before they traded for star quarterback Russell
Wilson this offseason, the Denver Broncos have been
taking care of their fans at Empower Field at Mile High,
especially when it comes to concessions operations.

By addressing years-old concessions problems with
new technologies and new ideas of how to get food and
drink into fans’ hands (and stomachs) much faster, the
Broncos are cutting down standing-in-line time while
also adding to their business bottom line. Starting
with the highest number of checkout-free stands in
any stadium anywhere and by also adding in self-serve
kiosks and optical-scanning checkout terminals, the
Broncos and catering partner Aramark are leading the
way in big-stadium concessions revolutions, with more
to come.

While the Broncos and Aramark had tested some of
the new concessions technology ideas before the
Covid pandemic reduced crowd sizes, for the 2021
NFL season the caterer and the team went large with
innovation. According to Aramark, that technology
infusion helped Empower Field at Mile High record the

highest transaction rate per attendee of the 11 NFL
stadiums where Aramark handles food and beverage
service.

For 2021, Empower Field at Mile High had nine
checkout-free stands, which use pre-visit payment
information (collected either via an app or a credit-
card swipe before entry) and a combination of in-store
recognition technology -- a mix of cameras, weight
sensors and artificial intelligence software -- to “see”
what customers are taking off the shelves, and to
digitally charge the customers for those items as they
leave the store. The stores, powered by technology
from a Silicon Valley startup named Zippin, proved to
be very popular with Broncos fans, as Stadium Tech
Report can attest from a December visit to the venue,
where all the Zippin stores we saw had lines of fans
waiting to get in.

The Broncos and Aramark have also implemented
several other line-speeding technologies, including
a combination of self-ordering kiosks and pickup
windows, much like what is used at fast-food outlets

Wireless Infrastructure Industry:
Quarterly Market Analysis
Reports & Briefings

These Reports:

Pinpoint market trends & outlooks

Evaluate MNO & InfraCo CapEx

Provide industry expert perspectives

Track transactions & relevant stocks

Subscribe >

30    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     31

needed, other than (at stadiums) for a staffer to check
IDs and one to make sure your alcohol can or bottle is
opened before you go back to your seat.

When you visit such a stand for the first time, it may be
hard to believe it works, but the systems clearly work
well enough that caterers, teams and fans are buying in
as fast as they can. There are already several different
tech providers competing in the space, including big
gorilla Amazon, which recently unveiled a full-size Whole
Foods store using the system in Washington, D.C. Amazon
Just Walk Out stores are also at Climate Pledge Arena
in Seattle, TD Garden in Boston, the United Center in
Chicago, UBS Arena and Houston’s Minute Maid Park.

Another Silicon Valley startup, AiFi, has partnered with
Verizon to place pop-up stores using similar walk-through
technology, with deployments last year at Ford Field in
Detroit, Hard Rock Stadium in Miami, at the Indy 500 and at
outdoor concerts like BottleRock in Napa Valley.

In Denver, Aramark uses Zippin technology to power its
nine “Drink Mkt” stands, which mostly sell beverages that
fans just pick out of glass-door coolers. The technology
is a perfect fit for fans who simply want to get a drink
and don’t want to wait in line at a traditional stand behind
a dad ordering nachos, burgers and fries and different
sodas for the whole family. By combining the walk-through
technology with the simple desire to get a can or two, the

Drink Mkt stands can service fans in seconds, at least once
they get inside the stores.

“There really is no better vertical (for the technology),” than
stadiums, said Gary Jacobus, Zippin’s senior vice president
for business development, in a phone interview. “There’s a lot
of people who need to be served in a short amount of time.”

In fact, as we went around the stadium at the
December game it seems like the biggest problem
with the Zippin stores is that they are so popular that
big lines form outside the entry gates (the gates keep
the number of people inside to a maximum that the
cameras can handle). Those lines, however, do move
quickly, and once fans are inside the stands their
average stay there is often a minute or less.

“If you put in one [store], it
becomes the place people
want to go,” Jacobus said.

If first-timers may wander around a bit and then take
a selfie as they leave, from our observations it doesn’t
take long for the wonder to wear off and the simple
attractiveness of getting something quickly takes over.
As we watched fans use the stands, it was clear that
there were already “veterans” at the game, whose no-

The ‘Downtown’ stand lets fans place orders for three different types of food, either via kiosk or by a mobile app.

NO TIME FOR CHECKOUTS

If you haven’t heard of or seen a checkout-free stand,
you probably will soon. There may be no recent
concessions tech advancement more perfectly suited
for stadiums than the systems that allow fans to use
a credit card, app or other pre-registration system,
then to just walk into a stand or store, select items,
and leave. with billing taking place in the electronic
background. There’s almost zero human interaction

in shopping malls and airports. According to Aramark
there are 10 such stands at Empower Field at Mile High,
including ones that only serve chicken-tender products
and another that serves tacos.

A technology concept that offers a wider range of
popular “grab and go” items, including pizza, popcorn,
nachos and hot dogs, uses an optical-scanner
checkout terminal from Mashgin. The autonomous
scanner “sees” a customer’s order when placed on the
terminal platform and instantly totals up the bill, which
is paid via a credit-card reader. According to Aramark
there are six stands at the stadium using the Mashgin
checkout systems.

In all, more than a third of all the built-in concessions
stands at the venue use some kind of new technology,
including the ability to order concessions via a mobile
app for express pickup at certain stand windows.
According to Aramark, the concessions upgrades
deployed at Empower Field at Mile High during the
2021 NFL season resulted in a 42 percent increase in
transactions during peak concessions sales periods,
as well as an increase in overall sales per game. And
while Aramark didn’t provide any statistics on staffing,
the new technologies and procedures can clearly result
in a reduced number of concessions workers needed
for mundane tasks like cash register operations, since
many of those tasks are basically eliminated.

32    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     33

Left to right: A fan signs up for a Zippin store; a grab and go stand; the Mashgin optical-scanner payment system at the grab and go stand.

nonsense trips were concluded in a matter of seconds
from entry to exit.

According to Jacobus the Drink Mkt stands were
configured mainly to “take the drink pressure off other
stands,” though he said that some of the stands at
Empower Field at Mile High did offer hot food items
as well. Stadium Tech Report also saw a “pop-up”
style Drink Mkt stand inside a club area, a different
configuration than the stands on concourses, which
are built into the stadium infrastructure.

One of the biggest costs of putting in a Zippin
stand (Aramark declined to reveal the price of a
reconfiguration) is installing the overhead cameras and
the sensors, which require some network and server
infrastructure as well. So the pop-up stands, which
have their own overhead infrastructure, could be a
faster and cheaper way to install more Zippin stands.

KIOSKS AND GRAB-AND-GO WITH OPTICAL
CHECKOUTS

If the Zippin-type stores are a bigger cost investment,
in Denver Aramark and the Broncos have found other
ways to add simpler technology that also speeds
up the ordering procedure. An early test of self-
ordering kiosks, which are fairly common at fast-
food restaurants in malls and airport, expanded to 10
stands for this past season, according to Aramark.
At these stands fans simply order and pay at a bank
of touchscreen kiosks and then wait until their order
number appears on a screen at an adjacent window.
From a Covid standpoint, such stands have been very
helpful since you don’t have to be in a line as you wait.
But even as virus concerns wind down, the kiosk
setup seems to be a better use of space and people’s
personal space; and like the Zippin stores, by taking
away the need for staffers to take orders it allows
the operators to have more flexibility in how staff are
deployed.

Technology also plays a role in the stadium’s six “grab
and go” stands, where a selection of popular items, like
pizza, popcorn, peanuts and hot dogs are offered in
prepackaged boxes on shelves that face an open line
flow. At these stands fans “grab” what they want and

then go to the innovative Mashgin terminals, where
they simply place their items on the terminal’s pad
where they are scanned by cameras. The terminal
then totals the order, which fans pay via credit card
scanner. Like the Zippin stands, the only staff needed
is to check IDs and ensure alcohol cans and bottles are
opened. Seattle’s Climate Pledge Arena also went large
with self-scanning terminals, though the ones they use
from Toshiba use standard bar codes.

NEIGHBORHOOD CONCEPT BRINGS THE CLUB
EXPERIENCE TO THE CONCOURSE

In another experiment the Broncos and Aramark have
built something that is both technology and process:
An innovative area that combines outposts of three
local restaurants built around a common ordering and
eating area that has stand-up drink rails and sit-down
tables. A renovated former storage space adds in two
stand-up bars and more seating areas, bringing club-
like amenities to the main concourse, a trial that was
extremely popular on the day of our visit.

Known by the forgettable corporate official name of
“Downtown Mile High at Empower Field at Mile High,”
the trick of making the plan work revolves around a

The ‘Downtown’ concept brings club-like concessions to a general
admission area.

34    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     35

bank of 16 touchscreen kiosks and a mobile app that
lets fans order from any of the three stands at the same
time. Then when orders are ready the order numbers
are displayed on digital screens, and fans go to the
individual store windows to pick up their food.

With the wide number of ordering options and by
not allowing fans to stand at each of the windows to
order, lines are basically eliminated. Self-serve soda
fountains in the middle common area also help with
streamlined service and more choices. Fans can then
enjoy the comfort of eating in a more normal way than
in a stadium seat, and can socialize with other fans who
may not be seated near them inside the seating bowl.

The popular local restaurants -- the burger-and-beer
menu from Cherry Cricket, casual Italian from Osteria
Marco and “Modern Mexican street food” from Tacos
Tequila Whiskey -- also give all attendees an upscale
dining option, the kind you might only typically find in
stadium club areas.

According to Alicia Woznicki, vice president of
design and development for Aramark Sports and
Entertainment, the “Downtown” area repurposed the
infrastructure of three previous standard concession
stands, including the kitchens used to supply those
stands. But what really makes the system interesting is
how it is configured for ordering and pickup, taking the
self-order single stand idea another step ahead.

“The unique ability to order from three distinct, local
concepts all in one transaction is a main highlight of the
space,” Woznicki said in an email exchange, saying the
experiment was the first of its kind for the caterer.

 Around the back of the food ordering area, the bar
space consists of two large bars, which have multiple
TV screens for watching game action, and seating and
stand-up rails. The bar areas, which back up against
a walkway ramp, were previously used for storage,
Woznicki said.

FASTER IS BETTER

Empower Field at Mile High also saw new concessions
technology of a different sort being trialed last season

36    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

-- this one a “self-pouring” beer tap that let fans put an
empty cup on a machine that tilts the cup as the beer
flows in, resulting in just the right amount of foam.

Called the “Bud Light Speed Pass,” the stand featured
several different taps of beer that fans could choose
from. Fans could return for multiple fill-ups, without
having to pay after the first time. While some might
question the quantity and pricing of the offer -- $30
for three 24-ounce beers, the equivalent of a standard
six-pack -- fans we watched using the service seemed
to have fun with the pouring machines and clearly were
happy with the speed of the service, with no bartenders
to get in the way.

“Based on the
overwhelmingly positive
reaction from guests, the plan
is to roll out more [Speed
Pass stands] in the future,”
Woznicki said.

Providing food and drink for fans while they are
attending events has always been a challenge for large

venues, and the larger the venues are, the harder the
task is. Anyone alive today who’s been to games or
concerts in their lifetime most likely has at least one
bad remembrance of an instance when it took an overly
long time to get concessions -- an entire baseball
inning, or half a football quarter -- and would gladly
try something new if it meant less time spent in lines.
That means that ideas like self-order kiosks, grab-and-
go stands, and checkout-free systems will probably
become more prevalent as more teams follow the path
blazed by the Broncos and Aramark.

“For every [fan] survey we ever did with Aramark, speed
of [concessions] service was always at the top,” said
Zippin’s Jacobus. “This technology is here to stay.”

STADIUM
TECH REPORT

Clockwise from top left: Once inside the gates at a Zippin store, fans
simply take what they want and leave; the Bud Light Speed Pass lets
fans pour their own drinks; the ‘Downtown’ area lets fans order on
their phones by scanning QR-code menus.

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     37

SPONSORS SHOWCASE

SPONSORS SHOWCASE

Hospitality Network, an

affiliate of Cox Business,

is a premier provider of choice for Managed Wi-Fi,
Location Based Services and In-Room Entertainment
to convention centers, arenas, stadiums and hotels
across the nation. Our custom tailored, technology
solutions are created to meet the specific needs of
each of our customers. HN has proven solutions that
benefit our customers, their guests and visitors from
coast to coast. Visit us at www.coxhn.com to learn
more.

MatSing is a pioneer
company in bringing high
performance RF lens
solutions to industries including wireless broadband,
satellite, measurement and big venues. MatSing has
had a strong focus on meta-material development and
design, allowing them to construct the worlds lightest
and largest RF lenses. Having developed unique high-
performance lens antennas for multiple industries,
MatSing is now driven to transform 4G networks
to lens technology.  Holding several RF technology
patents, MatSing Inc. has led the development of a
new approach to antenna design, focusing on using
RF Lenses to outperform traditional phased-array
(panel) or dish antennas, providing a needed solution to
growing capacity demands. www.matsing.com

ExteNet Systems is the
nation’s largest privately
held network provider of
secure 5G and fiber neutral
host infrastructure solutions
serving mobile network operators, real estate
owners, enterprises, content providers, wholesale
carriers, municipalities, and rural internet providers.
Our solutions operate in urban, suburban, and rural
markets to connect customers to the applications and
services they need, indoors and out, within hundreds
of sports and entertainment venues, hotels, resorts,
convention centers, commercial office buildings,
healthcare facilities, and transit systems nationwide.
Visit www.extenetsystems.com for more information.

Boingo Wireless is a leading
provider of cellular and Wi-
Fi networks at stadiums and
arenas, universities, airports,
military bases, convention
centers and commercial properties. You’ll find
Boingo connecting people and things at sports and
entertainment venues across the NFL, NBA, MLS,
NCAA and more. These venues include Soldier Field,
Vivint Arena, State Farm Arena, University of Arizona’s
Arizona Stadium, University of Nebraska’s Pinnacle
Bank Arena and more. Boingo’s industry-leading
Distributed Antenna System (DAS) networks leverage
state-of-the-art design to deliver comprehensive
stadium coverage and maximize carrier participation
to ensure more fan access and meet the demands
of the 5G  era. As a global leader in managed Wi-Fi
services, the company maximizes access to networks
through global roaming agreements via carrier offload
and major brand sponsorships through the Boingo
Media Platform.
For more information, visit www.boingo.com.

American Tower brings
building and venue owners
nearly 20 years of experience
deploying and monitoring in-
building and outdoor wireless infrastructure solutions,
including Distributed Antenna Systems (DAS) and Small
Cells. Today, we manage approximately 500 networks,
covering over a billion square feet in venues such as
stadiums, convention centers, retail malls, hotels,
and casinos. Our neutral-host infrastructure is ready
for 5G and can help properties deliver the wireless
connectivity needed for superior fan experiences and
optimal business operations. As one of the largest Real
Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) in the U.S., we have
the financial strength and scale to support any in-
building wireless communications needs. Learn more
at americantower.com/venues.

Delivering the connected
world. Simply. Securely.
Reliably. In today’s rapidly
transforming environment, we integrate, secure and
operate the networks, and mobile technologies that
help businesses in the live sports and entertainment
sector innovate to bring fans back to stadiums, arenas
and LPVs in safe, smart and immersive ways. Our
solutions across Connectivity, Security and Advanced
Business Communications are designed to help
companies pursue new possibilities and create entirely
new revenue streams – more efficiently than ever.
Verizon has the expertise and solutions venue owners
and operators need to create more future-ready
facilities.

Visit us at: https://www.verizon.com/business/
solutions/5g/stadium-venue-experience/ to learn how
VBG can help you prepare for digital transformation,
innovation and accelerated growth in the 5G era.

AmpBoards  is
a creative and
development agency which specifically designs, builds
and implements the AmpBoards digital signage and
menu CMS HTML solution in large venues and arenas.
The powerful platform assists with removing the
burden of making menu board and signage updates
from  Event Day Operators and hands that power to
the people who need it most... concessionaires. F&B
groups now have the ability to make menu board and
other signage updates quickly and easily through an
intuitive user interface. AmpBoards currently partners
with concessionaires such as Levy, Aramark, Delaware
North, VenueNext, Legends and others to build eye-
catching menu and signage designs using data and
best practices. AmpBoards also currently works
with multiple POS and DB providers including SpotOn
Enterprise (formerly Appetize), Oracle Micros, Clover/
Bypass and VenueNext.
Learn more at www.ampboards.com.

38    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022     39

SUBSCRIBER LICENSE AGREEMENT
Between

MOBILE SPORTS REPORT and Subscriber

Any Mobile Sports Report (“Report”) and the information therein are the property of or licensed to Mobile Sports Report,
and permission to use the same is granted to site-wide or single-category Subscribers (“Subscribers”) under the terms
of this Subscriber License Agreement (“Agreement”), which may be amended from time to time without notice. When
requesting a Report, you acknowledge that you are bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement and any
amendments thereto. Mobile Sports Report therefore recommends that you review this page for amendments to this
Agreement prior to requesting any additional Reports.

OWNERSHIP RIGHTS

All reports are owned by Mobile Sports Report and protected by federal, state and international copyright, trademark
and intellectual property laws, under and by applicable treaties and/or conventions. Subscriber agrees not to export any
Report into any country that does not have copyright, trademark and intellectual property laws that will protect Mobile
Sports Report’s rights therein.

GRANT OF LICENSE RIGHTS

Mobile Sports Report hereby grants Subscriber a non-exclusive, non-refundable, non-transferable license to use the
Report for research purposes only pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Mobile Sports Report retains
exclusive and sole ownership of each Report disseminated under this Agreement. Subscriber agrees not to permit any
unauthorized use, reproduction,distribution, publication or electronic transmission of any Report or the information/
forecasts therein without the express written permission of Mobile Sports Report.

In case of any distribution of Reports under this Agreement, Subscriber agrees to retain all copyright, trademark and
other proprietary notices on the Reports.

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY AND LIABILITY

MOBILE SPORTS REPORT, ITS EMPLOYEES, AFFILIATES, AGENTS AND LICENSORS DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY,
COMPLETENESS, CURRENTNESS, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
OF ANY REPORTS COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT. MOBILE SPORTS REPORT, ITS EMPLOYEES, AFFILIATES, AGENTS
AND LICENSORS SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO SUBSCRIBER OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR LOSS OR INJURY CAUSED IN WHOLE
OR PART BY MOBILE SPORTS REPORT’S NEGLIGENCE OR BY CONTINGENCIES BEYOND MOBILE SPORTS REPORT’S
CONTROL IN COMPILING, PREPARING OR DISSEMINATING ANY REPORT, OR FOR ANY DECISION MADE OR ACTION TAKEN
BY SUBSCRIBER OR ANY THIRD PARTY IN RELIANCE ON SUCH INFORMATION, OR FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL,
INDIRECT OR SIMILAR DAMAGES (INCLUDING LOST PROFITS), EVEN IF MOBILE SPORTS REPORT WAS ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF THE SAME. SUBSCRIBER AGREES THAT THE LIABILITY OF MOBILE SPORTS REPORT, ITS EMPLOYEES,
AFFILIATES, AGENTS AND LICENSORS, IF ANY, ARISING OUT OF ANY KIND OF LEGAL CLAIM (WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE) IN CONNECTION WITH ITS GOOD/SERVICES UNDER THIS AGREEMENT SHALL NOT EXCEED THE
AMOUNT SUBSCRIBER PAID TO MOBILE SPORTS REPORT FOR USE OF THE REPORT IN QUESTION.

This License will be governed by the laws of the State of California.

1919 14th St., Suite 700, Boulder, CO 80302    I     (720) 668-9842     I     kaps@stadiumtechreport.com

MOBILE SPORTS REPORTS, LLC

©2022

40    STADIUM TECH REPORT   I   SPRING 2022

